# Animal Magic

Welcome to Animal Magic on Exercism's Go Track.
If you need help running the tests or submitting your code, check out `HELP.md`.
If you get stuck on the exercise, check out `HINTS.md`, but try and solve it without using those first :)

## Introduction

Package [math/rand][mathrand] provides support for generating pseudo-random numbers.

Here is how to generate a random integer between `0` and `99`:

```go
n := rand.Intn(100) // n is a random int, 0 <= n < 100
```

Function `rand.Float64` returns a random floating point number between `0.0` and `1.0`:

```go
f := rand.Float64() // f is a random float64, 0.0 <= f < 1.0
```

There is also support for shuffling a slice (or other data structures):

```go
x := []string{"a", "b", "c", "d", "e"}
// shuffling the slice put its elements into a random order
rand.Shuffle(len(x), func(i, j int) {
	x[i], x[j] = x[j], x[i]
})
```

## Seeds

The number sequences generated by package `math/rand` are not truly random.  
They are completely determined by an initial `seed` value.
By default, the package uses the integer `1` as a seed.

In order to get a different sequence of random numbers, we need to specify a different seed value.
A simple approach is to use the "current time":

```go
rand.Seed(time.Now().UnixNano())
```

Setting the seed must be done **before** calling any of the functions that generate random numbers.
We usually only need to set the seed once in our program.
From one seed we can generate many random numbers.

### Warning

If you don't call `rand.Seed`, then the package will produce the same sequence of random numbers each time your program runs!

## Instructions

Elaine is working on a new children's game that features animals and magic wands.
It is time to code functions for rolling a die, generating random wand energy and shuffling a slice.

## 1. Seed the random number generator.

Implement a `SeedWithTime` function that seeds the `math.rand` package with the current computer time.

## 2. Roll a die.

Implement a `RollADie` function.

This will be the traditional twenty-sided die with numbers 1 to 20.

```go
d := RollADie() // d will be assigned a random int, 1 <= d <= 20
```

## 3. Generate wand energy.

Implement a `GenerateWandEnergy` function.
The wand energy should be a random floating point number between 0.0 and 12.0.

```go
f := GenerateWandEnergy()  // f will be assigned a random float64, 0.0 <= f < 12.0
```

## 4. Shuffle a slice.

The game features eight different animals:

- ant
- beaver
- cat
- dog
- elephant
- fox
- giraffe
- hedgehog

Write a function `ShuffleAnimals` that returns a slice with the eight animals in random order.

## Source

### Created by

- @norbs57